thank you all thank you for your
attention thanks to everybody on the
panel if I could just ask people to
remain seated just for a few minutes in
exploration there needs to be the set of
people who have no rules and they are
going into the frontier I've never heard
of a moment in history where an entire
field is hinging on a single event the
Large Hadron Collider the biggest
machine ever built is finally going to
turn on you take two things and you
smash them together you get a lot of
stuff out of that collision and you try
to understand that stuff could be
nothing other than just understanding
everything little did I know and I
started that the experiments would take
30 years and Here I am still not knowing
I really want to know the truth the
first time I ever saw it
I can remember walking in and just being
stunned like five stories completely
filled with custom design hand soldered
micro electronics there are 10,000
people over a hundred nationalities to
tell a hundred thousand computers deal
with the data in fact the world wide web
was invented at CERN so that physicists
could share the data this is really my
generation is only shot let's get
started everybody now comes the day of
reckoning it
even the complexity are already about a
week or two behind we're saying that all
their tools are breaking it begs the
question what the risks it would be a
catastrophe for physics this helium leak
really frustrated little magnets shared
of the Jackass trophy we're at a fork in
the road and it's cranking up the
suspense as much as it possibly can we
made us call that additional space they
mentioned the mystery and the origin of
the universe we may be at the end of the
road the entire control room is like a
group of six year old whose birthday is
next week it's incredible if it's
happened in my lifetime
whatever we learned is going to have a
dramatic impact on the way human beings
think about the universe forever
you